docs/source/library.rst, before:

torch.library
===================================
.. py:module:: torch.library
.. currentmodule:: torch.library

torch.library is a collection of APIs for extending PyTorch's core library
of operators. It contains utilities for testing custom operators, creating new
custom operators, and extending operators defined with PyTorch's C++ operator
registration APIs (e.g. aten operators).

For a detailed guide on effectively using these APIs, please see
`this gdoc <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W--T6wz8IY8fOI0Vm8BF44PdBgs283QvpelJZWieQWQ/edit>`_

Testing custom ops
------------------

Use :func:`torch.library.opcheck` to test custom ops for incorrect usage of the
Python torch.library and/or C++ TORCH_LIBRARY APIs. Also, if your operator supports
training, use :func:`torch.autograd.gradcheck` to test that the gradients are
mathematically correct.

.. autofunction:: opcheck

Creating new custom ops in Python
---------------------------------

Use :func:`torch.library.custom_op` to create new custom ops.

.. autofunction:: custom_op

Extending custom ops (created from Python or C++)
-------------------------------------------------

Use the register.* methods, such as :func:`torch.library.register_kernel` and
func:`torch.library.register_fake`, to add implementations
for any operators (they may have been created using :func:`torch.library.custom_op` or
via PyTorch's C++ operator registration APIs).

.. autofunction:: register_kernel
.. autofunction:: register_autograd
.. autofunction:: register_fake
.. autofunction:: impl_abstract
.. autofunction:: get_ctx

Low-level APIs
--------------

The following APIs are direct bindings to PyTorch's C++ low-level
operator registration APIs.

.. warning::
   The low-level operator registration APIs and the PyTorch Dispatcher are a
   complicated PyTorch concept. We recommend you use the higher level APIs above
   (that do not require a torch.library.Library object) when possible.
   This blog post <http://blog.ezyang.com/2020/09/lets-talk-about-the-pytorch-dispatcher/>`_
   is a good starting point to learn about the PyTorch Dispatcher.

A tutorial that walks you through some examples on how to use this API is available on `Google Colab <https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1RRhSfk7So3Cn02itzLWE9K4Fam-8U011?usp=sharing>`_.

.. autoclass:: torch.library.Library
  :members:

.. autofunction:: fallthrough_kernel

.. autofunction:: define

.. autofunction:: impl

Commit message:

New Custom Ops Documentation landing page
We create a new landing page for PyTorch custom ops (suggested by
jansel). All of our error messages will link here, and I'll work with
the docs team to see if we can boost SEO for this page.

NB: the landing page links some non-searchable webpages. Two of those
(the Python custom ops tutorial and C++ custom ops tutorial) will turn
into actual webpages when PyTorch 2.4 comes around. I'll make the third one
(the Custom Operators Manual) once it stabilizes (we continously add new
things to it and the length means that we might want to create a custom
website for it to make the presentation more ingestable).

Test Plan:
- view docs preview.

ghstack-source-id: fa2070d91900ea5eb6989c24456faeee6cf93b13
Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/127400

docs/source/library.rst, after:

.. _torch-library-docs:

torch.library
===================================
.. py:module:: torch.library
.. currentmodule:: torch.library

torch.library is a collection of APIs for extending PyTorch's core library
of operators. It contains utilities for testing custom operators, creating new
custom operators, and extending operators defined with PyTorch's C++ operator
registration APIs (e.g. aten operators).

For a detailed guide on effectively using these APIs, please see
Please see :ref:`custom-ops-landing-page`
for more details on how to effectively use these APIs.

Testing custom ops
------------------

Use :func:`torch.library.opcheck` to test custom ops for incorrect usage of the
Python torch.library and/or C++ TORCH_LIBRARY APIs. Also, if your operator supports
training, use :func:`torch.autograd.gradcheck` to test that the gradients are
mathematically correct.

.. autofunction:: opcheck

Creating new custom ops in Python
---------------------------------

Use :func:`torch.library.custom_op` to create new custom ops.

.. autofunction:: custom_op

Extending custom ops (created from Python or C++)
-------------------------------------------------

Use the register.* methods, such as :func:`torch.library.register_kernel` and
func:`torch.library.register_fake`, to add implementations
for any operators (they may have been created using :func:`torch.library.custom_op` or
via PyTorch's C++ operator registration APIs).

.. autofunction:: register_kernel
.. autofunction:: register_autograd
.. autofunction:: register_fake
.. autofunction:: impl_abstract
.. autofunction:: get_ctx

Low-level APIs
--------------

The following APIs are direct bindings to PyTorch's C++ low-level
operator registration APIs.

.. warning::
   The low-level operator registration APIs and the PyTorch Dispatcher are a
   complicated PyTorch concept. We recommend you use the higher level APIs above
   (that do not require a torch.library.Library object) when possible.
   This blog post <http://blog.ezyang.com/2020/09/lets-talk-about-the-pytorch-dispatcher/>`_
   is a good starting point to learn about the PyTorch Dispatcher.

A tutorial that walks you through some examples on how to use this API is available on `Google Colab <https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1RRhSfk7So3Cn02itzLWE9K4Fam-8U011?usp=sharing>`_.

.. autoclass:: torch.library.Library
  :members:

.. autofunction:: fallthrough_kernel

.. autofunction:: define

.. autofunction:: impl
